---
title: How to use RTX GPUs with tensorflow and CUDA 10 in Windows 10
categories: Tips
---

CUDA 9 doesn't officially support RTX graphic cards like RTX2080ti. CUDA 10 officially supports RTX graphic cards.

On the other hand, tensorflow officially supports CUDA 9 integration, while it doesn't support CUDA 10 yet.

I got a lot of information about this issue in https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/22706. According to this link, tensorflow 1.13 will be released in mid Jan, with official support in CUDA 10. However, there might be people (like me) who can't wait until then.

I've struggled for days to find a way to use RTX graphic cards for deep learning in windows 10 and eventually found a solution. I'll share with you how to use RTX graphic cards with tensorflow and CUDA 10 in windows 10.

## 1. Download CUDA and cuDNN

Set up environments for CUDA usage. Follow instructions from https://www.python36.com/how-to-install-tensorflow-gpu-with-cuda-10-0-for-python-on-windows/. You only have to follow **step 1 ~ step 5 and step 7** in this link. You should download latest version of CUDA 10, and **cuDNN 7.3.1**.

## 2. Set virtual environment

Set up an virtual environment with python version 3.6. I will assume you have anaconda installed. Type `conda create -n tf-gpu python=3.6` on cmd.

## 3. Download tensorflow

Download unofficial tensorflow built by MingyaoLiu from https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/22706#issuecomment-435742294.

## 4. Install tensorflow to your virtual environment

Fourth, activate your virtual environment (`conda activate tf-gpu`) and go to the directory where you downloaded the whl file in step 3. Then type `pip install tensorflow-1.12.0-cp36-cp36m-win_amd64.whl`.

## 5. Enable Eager Execution

When coding you should type `tf.enable_eager_execution()` right below `import tensorflow as tf`. I don't know why only eager execution works, but when I didn't do it, bug appeared.

---

Following these steps, hopefully you can use RTX GPUs with tensorflow and CUDA 10. Of course this method will be useless when tensorflow officially supports CUDA10.
