---
title: What is Reinforcement Learning?
categories: Reinforcement-Learning
header:
  teaser: /assets/teasers/8.jpg
---

# Agent and Environment

In supervised/unsupervised machine learning, the interface is the training data and we make predictions on unseen data based on the trained model. On the other hand, reinforcement learning can guide an 'agent' on how to act in the real world. Interface is much more broad than training vectors we had in supervised/unsupervised learning. It's the entire 'environment', which can be real world or simulated world such as video gaems.

RL agents get feedback automatically as they interact with environment. This is different from  supervised learning, where we need to manually make labels.

Objective of RL is much more broader than supervised/unsupervised learning, so it allows us to solve a wide variety of problems in sometimes unexpected ways. For example, AlphaGo's goal is to win Go, and it found unique ways of winning. 'Selfish Gene' make human act in various ways to reproduce itself. Genes use mutation and natural selection to achieve this goal, whereas AI uses reinforcement learning to achieve whatever goal it was given.

Choosing appropriate goal is important. For example, if we set the goal to 'minimize human deaths', our agent can kill human to reduce future deaths.

# State

Like humans, AIs can never sense the entire world at once. Human use sensors like sight to get signals from the environment. Thus the information we get is limited. The measurements we get from these sensors make up a 'state'. For example in a tic-tac-toe game, there are $3^9$ possible states.

# Reward

Reward is what differentiates RL from other types of ML. An agent tries to maximize its immediate and future reward. It is important to set appropratie rewards. For example, let's think of building a machine that solves a maze. If we just give +1 for solving it, our machine will not care how fast it solves it. To make our agent work hard to find fastest path, we may give -1 for one step an agent takes.

# Action

Actions are what an agent does in its environment. For example, if agent is a 2D video game characters, actions will be {up, down, left, right, jump}.

# 5 concepts of RL

We've looked at 5 important concepts of RL.

1. Agent: Thing that senses the environment, thing we're trying to code intellignece/learning into
2. Environment: Real world or simulated world that the agent lives in
3. State: Different configurations of the environment that the agent can sense
4. Reward: What we assign to our agent to make it accomplish a given goal
5. Action: What an agent does in its environment

# Sequence of states, actions and rewards

An agent starts in state S(t), takes actions A(t), and receives a reward of R(t+1). Then, S(t) and A(t) brings an agent to a new state S(t+1). This makes a triple (s, a, s')

# Summary

Reinforcement learning is a way to program an agent to be intelligent. Agent interacts with its environment by being in a state, taking action based on that state, which brings it to a new state. Environment gives the agent a real number reward in next timestamp.
